I became a scientist because I loved
exploring and being on a frontier but I
always thought it would be an
intellectual frontier
if you ever get the chance take a dive
in a submersible and turn out the lights
it's a star field all of these stars
just swirling around you
my first dye I was just blown away I
felt like this has to be one of the most
important processes down here there's
all this like communication going on and
I wanted to understand it I had a pretty
traditional career lined up but the
submersible dive changed everything
[Music]
because of my interest in light and
vision in the ocean I've gotten involved
in more and more squid expeditions but
it's always from the perspective of
vision and bioluminescence right now
we're off the coast of Chile in the
Humboldt Current which is appropriate
because we're looking for Humboldt squid
a lot of the time I've spent in
submersibles I've always been wondering
about what's out there that I'm not
seeing because we're scaring it away we
go down with exploration platforms that
have these big bright lights on them and
these very noisy thrusters and of course
we're scaring animals away and so I
wanted to be unobtrusive to see how the
animals behave in their natural habitat
so I wanted to use red light that would
be invisible to these deep sea animals
that see primarily only blue light and
then I didn't want to just put bait down
Humboldt squid are not scavengers so I
developed an optical lure that imitates
a particular deep-sea jellyfish display
that's called a burglar alarm if an
animal is caught by a predator then it
will use every light it's God in the
hopes of attracting the attention of a
larger predator that may attack its
attacker that's the theory behind the
eat jelly and that's what got the first
video footage ever recorded of a giant
squid in its natural habitat I've tried
a bunch of different things over the
years to try to be able to talk to the
animals
and with the e-jelly I feel like I'm I'm
finally making some progress
it's a super stimulus or the squid it
was just amazing the different types of
behaviors we were seeing curiosity is
who we are I definitely consider myself
to be an ocean Explorer that's been a
big part of my career I feel incredibly
privileged to have been able to do that
[Music]
you